In the last lectures we played around a little bit with a lot of old Tinker and we've also seen how
we can fetch models from the database so you can see that our page is a little bit outdated because
we have the home and contact sections and also a link to an individual blog post which is hardcoded
inside the home controller from this array.
And now we should probably move to using our model and fetch the data from the database.
So as we've created two records inside this table we now have something to fetch so let's move to the
Visual Studio code.
By the way it seems I forgot to close the Anacortes tag here.
So this would be correct.
Okay.
It doesn't really matter because we are gonna remove this root.
But first let's open the terminal and type page bee artisan route least.
It's a comment you should already be familiar with.
And let's review our roots.
So ignore this one because it's being added by Lara.
So it's not important right now.
So we had the home route which with the home name and it's inside the home controller and also the blog
post has their name blog post and is inside the same controller.
Same with the contact page.
So we should think if that's really the best way to go around that because now we have everything inside
one single controller one single class which basically seems to be handling or having too much responsibility.
So we will solve that by moving the logic related to this plane.
Blog posts into a separate controller so let's get to work and start cleaning up our application.
So close the terminal and remove this link.
Because now we do not want a link to one blog post with the static i.e. one.
We want to link to all the blog posts so we can also remove this route because we've only created it
to learn about the required and optional parameters.
So let's remove that and see what do we have.
So now we only have the home and contact pages and also if we would check the route least.
Now we only have the home and contact routes.
So now before we just jump on and create a new post controller class and define routes for all the possible
routes we might be having in this like for displaying the least of the blog post.
One blog post and also for adding them modifying and deleting them.
Let's think what is actually a blog post.
It is a resource so Lavell has a concept to handle these situations and it is called our resource controller.
So let's jump to the Vikki page for this lecture.
The link is included in this lecture and there is another handy command to generate such controllers
and it's like you would normally do it but with the resource suffix so what it what it does it will
generate both controller but with all of the actions that you might possibly need to handle.
This blog post the resource already created and then you can define the routes for it using this single
Call so you will just use a route resource and have all the routes for our blog post controller.
So let's go ahead and do this so let's go to the Visual Studio code and type P HB artisan make controller
post controller resource so we have created our resource controller successfully and we can open it.
So let's close terminal for just a second.
And you can see that we've got plenty of methods out of the box so the index create store show.
Edit Update and destroy.
Now let's go to work BHP and ARD all these routes at one go using the resource static method of the
route object.
So we want this to be slash posts and the controller would be post controller.
So we do not have to specify any action methods.
And now let's go to the terminal and rerun the peach bipartisan route list.
So now you see that we've got a lot of stuff out of the box.
So we've got a post index which is also convention in LA travel to use those specific group names.
And it's a good idea to follow that because it will be understandable by everyone else that you might
be working with.
So the index the post index would be for displaying the list of the posts the store would be to save
it the create would be to display a kind of form when you'd like to display a form to create a brand
new blog post.
This show would be to display an individual resource.
So not only blog posts I'm talking generally.
So individual resource and the update is for saving changes to the model destroy for deleting and edit
for showing a forum to edit an existing blog post.
You can also see that we haven't we didn't have to specify the methods individually it just ordered
them out of the box for us.
And also there you URLs look.
Correct.
So we didn't have to specify them.
They are generated out of the box now in our case.
We are not ready yet to add new blog posts and modify them or delete them.
And we only want to display their list of the posts and an individual blog post.
So how can we do that since we have all these methods and the roots are ultimately generated we can
call another method the chain on other methods on the resource method and the method name is only and
it accepts an array.
So now you can specify which of those routes you want.
So you only use the suffix after the resource name.
So we only want to index
and show
so let's who rerun our peach pit artisan route list and now we only have those to the index and show.
So for clarity we can remove the other methods for now we can of course bring them back later or just
leave them but we'll just remove them for now
so that's the update method.
And finally the destroy method.
OK.
So now we have those two methods and now we will try to load the models from the database and return
them to the user.
So now let's use what we have learned in previous lectures and see how we can load the model.
So you might remember that the blog post is inside the up namespace and it has the method all.
So we do not have views prepared for this yet we'll do that in another lecture.
So now you can use our handy larval function called D.D. and it's a shortcut for dump and die.
So it will just echo the contents of whatever was passed through it and die.
So it will just stop executing it so let's save this and see if we can go to the polls you URL so you
can see that we have the collection.
And yes it contains our two blog posts.
So the actual data out them is inside the attributes property.
Now let's try to fetch one model.
So as you might remember we will also use Didi as you might remember there is the find a method that
allows us to find the model by day by its primary key which in this case happens to be I.D..
So since we have the I.D. passed it's part of the route.
We can just do block posts find and pass the I.D. So inside the database we have to.
So there is with blog post with the idea one and I.D. tool.
So let's see if that would work.
So now we have the first one with the new content and modified title and the second one
with attributes that match what is inside the database.
Now let's take a look at this blog post model.
You can see that relating to it using including the namespace isn't really convenient because you will
have to older to all the times type the up prefix and it will become even more cumbersome if the namespace
would be any longer.
So you can import this class using the use statement so you will have to add the U statement after the
namespace and type the class name.
So this would be up blog post
and now instead of typing the full class name including the namespace you can just use it like that
so you will just use the block post class name and this would also work the same.
It's I think it is much more convenient
now let's see what would happen if you tried to go to a blog post that we know doesn't exist.
So let's say 333.
So we just No and probably we will expect our 400 for not found page and we didn't get that.
So we'll discuss how to do that in the next lecture.
And also I will show you a way to fetch individual models even more convenient way and also will work.
We will work with the views and see how we can easily display our collection of items.